OADP-5636: After OADP update to 1.4.2 no backups found (#88849)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oadp-support-backup-data-immutability.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/installing/about-installing-oadp.adoc

> 

Author: ```suggestion

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/installing/about-installing-oadp.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="oadp-support-backup-data-immutability_{context}"]
= OADP does not support backup data immutability

> Starting with {oadp-short} 1.3, backups may not function as expected when the target object storage has an immutability option configured. These immutability options are referred to by different names. 

Author: ```suggestion
Starting with {oadp-short} 1.3, backups may not function as expected when the target object storage has an immutability option configured. These immutability options are referred to by different names.:

* object lock
* object retention
* bucket versioning
* Write Once Read Many (WORM) buckets
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/installing/about-installing-oadp.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="oadp-support-backup-data-immutability_{context}"]
= OADP does not support backup data immutability

> Starting with {oadp-short} 1.3, backups may not function as expected when the target object storage has an immutability option configured. These immutability options are referred to by different names, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with {oadp-short} 1.3, backups might not function as expected when the target object storage has an immutability option configured. These immutability options are referred to by different names, for example:
```
"may" does not translate properly in other languages; use "might"

> * Object lock

Reviewer: should this be "S3 object locK" specifically?

> * Object lock

Author: ```suggestion
* S3 object lock
```

> * object lock
> * object retention
> * bucket versioning

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Object lock
* Object retention
* Bucket versioning
```

* Write Once Read Many (WORM) buckets

> The primary reason for the absence of support lies in the fact that {oadp-short} initially saves the state of a backup as _finalizing_ and then scrutinizes whether any async operations are in progress. If there are async operations in progress, {oadp-short} needs to wait for all of them to be finished before moving the backup state to _complete_. If there are no async operations, and the state is moved to _complete_ immediately. Regardless, {oadp-short} must modify the metadata in object storage, which will not be possible if some kind of immutability is configured on the object storage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The primary reason for the absence of support is that {oadp-short} initially saves the state of a backup as _finalizing_ and then scrutinizes whether any asynchronous operations are in progress. If there are asynchronous operations in progress, {oadp-short} needs to wait for all of them to be finished before moving the backup state to _complete_. If there are no asynchronous  operations, and the state is moved to _complete_ immediately. Regardless, {oadp-short} must modify the metadata in object storage, which is not be possible if an immutability option is configured on the object storage.
```

> The primary reason for the absence of support is that {oadp-short} initially saves the state of a backup as _finalizing_ and then scrutinizes whether any asynchronous operations are in progress. If there are asynchronous operations in progress, {oadp-short} needs to wait for all of them to be finished before moving the backup state to _complete_. If there are no asynchronous  operations, and the state is moved to _complete_ immediately. Regardless, {oadp-short} must modify the metadata in object storage, which is not be possible if an immutability option is configured on the object storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{oadp-short} must modify the metadata in object storage, which is not possible if an immutability option is configured on the object storage.

{oadp-short} initially saves the state of a backup as _finalizing_ and then scrutinizes whether any asynchronous operations are in progress. If there are asynchronous operations in progress, {oadp-short} waits for all of them to be finished before moving the backup state to _complete_. If there are no asynchronous operations, then the state is moved to _complete_ immediately. 
```
I don't understand why the description on line 18 is relevant here?

> With versions before {oadp-short} 1.3, an object storage with an immutability configuration was not supported. You might see some problems even though backups are working, for example, version objects are not deleted when backup is deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With versions before {oadp-short} 1.3, object storage with an immutability configuration was also not supported. You might see some problems even though backups are working. For example, version objects are not deleted when a backup is deleted.
```

> With versions before {oadp-short} 1.3, there was no explicit support in {oadp-short} to work with object storage with an 'immutability' configuration. You may see some problems even though backups seem to work, for example, version objects not being deleted when backup is deleted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With versions before {oadp-short} 1.3, an object storage with an immutability configuration was not supported. You might see some problems even though backups are working, for example, version objects are not deleted when backup is deleted.
```

[NOTE]
====

> Depending on the specific provider and configuration, backups may still work in some cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on the specific provider and configuration, backups might work in some cases.
```

====

> * AWS S3 service supports backups because S3 object lock only applies to versioned buckets, and you can still update the object data for the new version. However, when backups are deleted, old versions of the objects are not deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AWS S3 service supports backups because an S3 object lock only applies to versioned buckets. You can still update the object data for the new version. However, when backups are deleted, old versions of the objects are not deleted.
```

> * AWS S3 service supports backups because S3's object lock only applies to versioned buckets, and the object data can still be updated as the new version. However, when backups are deleted, old versions of the objects will not be deleted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* AWS S3 service supports backups because S3 object lock only applies to versioned buckets, and you can still update the object data for the new version. However, when backups are deleted, old versions of the objects are not deleted.
```

> * Azure Storage Blob is capable of supporting both versioned-level immutability and container-level immutability. In a versioned-level situation, data immutability can still work in {oadp-short}, but not at the container level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Azure Storage Blob supports both versioned-level immutability and container-level immutability. In a versioned-level situation, data immutability can still work in {oadp-short}, but not at the container level.
```
